hello guys welcome to the keto Pro
podcast with myself Richard Smith today
I am joined with Professor CED Professor
caed is a professor of biology genetics
and biochemistry at Boston College and
in my opinion one of if the uh if not
the world leading expert in uh metabolic
cancer treatment and prevention or even
cancer treatment and prevention in
general uh Professor CED welcome on
board oh thank you Richard it's nice to
be here today
fantastic and thank you this is uh an
incredible treat for me um yeah to get
you on as as made my day I know we had
to postpone this because you're such a
busy man so yeah this is this is a super
exciting one for me so let's get
straight into it um cancer so through my
journey as a nutritionist um I've worked
previously with with many people who
suffer with many conditions and what I
have found is that within the the
nutritional medic Community there are
experts in various Fields I.E heart
professionals people who work on the
brain kidney so on and so forth now what
what I feel that I've learned over the
years is that many of these things if
not all of them come back to diet and
lifestyle yet we are told that they are
genetic and this is a common theme with
the clients that I work with it's in my
genes it runs in my family um cancer
being one of them you know we believe
that this is a genetic condition um
could you EXP explain your position on
whether you believe that this is
actually genetic or something else well
uh it's not what I it's not what I
believe it's what the scientific data uh
tell us um you know we don't believe
unless we see data so we have to look at
the data so you're absolutely correct
the world uh top cancer uh research
centers hospitals um Government funding
agencies uh say that cancer is the
genetic
disease if you go on to the National
Cancer Institute of the United States uh
and ask what is cancer it clearly says
cancer is a genetic disease uh caused by
mutations um in DNA of the nucleus and
this this um is what we refer to as the
somatic mutation theory of cancer which
is been the Dogma uh the the silent
assumption uh that has driven research
and treatments uh
worldwide um but but you know it it's
people accept it uh because of
confirmation bias assimilation bias it's
not uh if you if anyone with a rational
capability of looking at information uh
would were to look carefully at the
evidence uh supporting the the the
somatic mutation Theory uh you would
have to scratch your head and say how is
anybody uh capable of believing this uh
let me give you some some factual
examples um there are papers published
uh showing that there are some cancers
where they can't find any mutations um
there are no mutations uh you know and
if the sematic if if they say C cancer
is due to somatic mutations in the DNA
uh of the nucleus of some of these
tumors and you can't find any uh
mutations yet the tumor is Raging out of
control um then there's something
something's not right with the Theory
and then well after they realize that
there's thousands and thousands of
mutations in all different cells of
cancers colon breast call they're all
different from each other every every
cell within a person's tumor if we're if
to be analyzed completely would find
different kinds of mutations there's in
each of the cells there's no two cells
that would have the exact exact pattern
of mutations that another cell would
have um but then they they break break
it down if you go to the National Cancer
Institute top me uh cancer journals they
say well not all mutations are leading
to disregulated cell growth which is the
definition of cancer cell division out
of control disregulated cell growth um
we call them now only certain kinds of
cancers C are caused by certain kinds of
mutations and these are called driver
mutations so we have passenger mutations
that seem to be mutated but they don't
code for anything but then we have these
important driver mutations uh which are
the ones that are supposed to be uh
responsible for the disregulated cell
growth however new experiments are
coming out all the time uh remarkably
showing that like a young guy like you
uh uh many people if you take your
tissue and look you find dozens and
thousands of driver mutations in tissue
that never forms uh cancer well this is
completely against the the the theory
because you're supposed to have tumors
in cells that have these driver
mutations and normal people don't and I
think the nail and the coffin for the
whole
uh Gene theory of cancer was the
mitochondrial nuclear transfer
experiments where you can take the
nucleus of a tumor Cell full of
mutations and drop it into a a healthy
cytoplasm and you don't get disregulated
growth whereas you you take the normal
nucleus and put it into a tumor
cytoplasm you get disregulated cell
growth this clearly says it's the
mitochondria in the cell not the
mutations in the nucleus now as I said
you if you have if you are capable of
looking at numbers and data and and and
you are somewhat scientifically literate
then this information should be clear to
even people with minimal levels of
Education yet how is it possible that
the leading scientists throughout the
world are locked into this cancer as a
genetic disease when the data clearly
tell us it's absolutely can't be so uh
this is the great conundrum that we are
facing worldwide because the therapies
that we're developing to treat cancer
patients in the clinic is based on an
incorrect Theory and as the result of
that in the United States we have 1,700
people a day dying from cancer which
comes to about 70 people per hour so uh
uh clearly what whatever we're doing is
not working in dropping the death rate
and that's due to the fact that cancer
is a is not a genetic disease it's a
mitochondrial metabolic disease driven
by glucose and glutamine and having an
inability to burn fatty acids or ketones
so we know how to manage it without
toxicity but unfortunately what I just
told
you is completely unknown uh uh
completely incomprehensible I I I can't
figure it out so what whatever is
happening we just have to continue to
Wade through dead people before somebody
wakes up and realizes what's going on
yeah which is super frustrating it's um
as a nutritionist um I work with uh with
doctors and medical professionals within
the NHS people who are open to the idea
that nutrition has a big impact on these
things um but they are few and far
between but these people are out there
so I present regularly um to these
communities um and what baffles me is
something so simple um seems to be Lost
in Translation and it's almost what they
are taught from the from the outset is
is incorrect and as you say it's this a
case of uh being taught the wrong thing
and everyone else is telling you that
these things are genetic and this is
what you taught in medical school and
then to try to think outside the box um
almost seems impossible but for me a lay
person yeah yeah well it's also very
hard because the the M your government
well the UK government the United States
government the German governments they
award large grants uh research grants to
scientists uh to hunt for genes and look
at genetic problems uh the
pharmaceutical company spend billions
and billions of dollars on these
therapies to to to work so that so the
issue is is that you know why should I
consider uh cancer as a mitochondrial
metabolic disease when I get so much
money uh to say that it's a genetic
disease if I say it's a metabolic
disease I might lose my grants and
therefore I'm going to go hungry so uh
uh it's better as one of as it says it's
difficult to convince Upton Sinclair
said it's difficult to convince someone
of something when their salary depends
on them not being convinced so you have
a lot of power structure that has
nothing to do with the science uh
supporting this incorrect uh theory on
cancer and unfortunately we're paying a
terrible terrible price for this but
it's worldwide which is really
remarkable it's amazing how all the
major industrial uh uh countries cities
uh cancer research foundations are all
walking to the same uh uh wrong drum uh
it's just a it's like I don't know what
is like the PIP Piper of of uh of the
brain and you talk to people and oh it
can't be they tell me what you just said
Camp I said why don't you look at the
data you tell me what's what number is
wrong with these with these nobody looks
at the data what I just the data that I
just described to you and as a matter of
fact when you read the top papers in
science and nature and cell they still
struggle trying to figure out uh why
these gen gene mutations uh that are
supposed to cause cancer are not causing
cancer and they never consider maybe
their theory is wrong they never stop
and think maybe the theory under which
we're studying this disease is incorrect
well God forbid because that'll change
the whole system and people are going to
have to come to realize this is a very
different kind of a disorder than what
it was made out to be yeah for sure look
a few things that I mean you mentioned
there um death rates in the US did you
say around 1,700 per day which is an a
it comes to about six almost 612,000 per
year and that's those numbers come from
the American Cancer Society so what what
I do is I simply divide it by
365 and you get almost 1,700 people a
day and then if you divide that by 24
hours in a day it comes out to about 70
people per hour in this United States
now of course in China it's even far
greater because they have a much larger
population and get into that the UK
currently is around a little bit less
around 460 each day but our population
prata um is is lower so if we were to
prata those figures up to the US
population quick Cal it come out around
2,300 um now I I wonder why this is you
know it's I part of me thinks that is it
because um and and we'll get on to to
maybe treatments and preventions uh but
a big part of this I believe and I'm
sure you will attest this also is uh the
reduction of of carbohydrates
particularly glucose um and introducing
and implementing a ketogenic based
lifestyle um which seems to predominate
within the us over many of the locations
in the world I mean this is quite new to
the UK uh the ketogenic way of living
the ketogenic lifestyle um it's new and
it's feared as a fad but I get the
impression that it does predominate and
it's a lot further uh down its Journey
than than in the UK so do you think that
that could be a contributor in in
regards to why the US Pro
is is slightly less currently at those
figures yeah I I don't I can't I can't
speak to to that um but I know what
you're saying about about this so you
know ba basically uh when you say diet
lifestyle and this kind of thing uh you
have to realize that as a species we
about 1.5 million uh years uh we as a
species have existed and most of that
time was in this Paleolithic uh form of
existence hundreds of thousands years
our physi techology is that of a
Paleolithic man uh we we would uh use
tremendous amounts of energy to get food
whether we were hunting forward or
gathering it or whatever uh but it's not
easy to chase down a large animal and
kill it um and then chop it up and eat
it um even if you're firing it uh you
know this there there's no carboh very
little of any carbohydrates uh in this
in this kind of Beast uh that we would
kill H we would eat the marrow that was
another another a nice story came out of
Israel a few months ago looking at how
these large animals went extinct like
Willie mammoths and some of these other
kinds of things um our our spe our early
ancestors uh would kill big Buffalos and
and all kinds of things but we would
kill the strongest members of The Herd
not the weak and the old uh The Young
and the old we would go for the
strongest members this is a nice St
study by Israel by the group um and that
because the the the the amount of
nutrition that you get in the marrow
from the from a member of the top me uh
strongest members of The Herd give you
more energy so we we knew uh that you
got to kill the be you got to kill the
top dog and get the and get the get the
energy from him and what that what
happened then is that the herd was then
left with um with very young and old
which then became her pred uh bait for
Predators because the the strong guys
that would protect the herd were killed
and eaten by us
and now the rest of the so you we they
attributed man to the uh uh underlying
extinctions of large groups of animals
that existed on the planet so we were we
we were very smart at that at that time
but we had no carbohydrates in our diet
um primitive man did not die from cancer
uh anym than uh members in Aboriginal
tribes that have been inv valuated uh
before Western diet lifestyle came in
like es uh ints and Africans from Albert
Switzer and others cancer did not exist
in folks that lived according to
traditional ways extremely rare so that
was the Paleolithic man uh who who was
always in nutritional
ketosis not that they wanted to be but
they had to be they had no choice there
was nothing there wasn't doughnut shops
and delicate Essence on every corner so
so you lived in this nutritional state
of ketosis so when you talk about
ketogenic diets all you're doing is
bringing man back to aate
of Paleolithic existence uh now listen a
Paleolithic man died predominantly from
infections and injuries because because
we didn't have antibiotics and we didn't
have orthopedic surgeons to to fix
broken bones and hips so we would die
earlier because we were not able to
correct these injuries what's killing us
today are all these chronic diseases
that are coming about as the result of
our diets and lifestyle don't forget we
evolved over 10 T of thousands of years
to want sweet we want sweet we would go
after honey we would go after anything
that was sweet so we are geared to want
sweet the problem is now we have an
abundance of it everywhere and we're
paying a health price in a different way
so the Obesity epidemic people who are
are obese are are the ancestors of our
are the descendants of our ancestors
that knew how to store massive amounts
of energy quickly now we're we have so
much energy we obesity chronic diseases
cancer dementia diabetes cardiovascular
disease it's all related to diet a shift
because as I told many people on these
podcasts we are still Paleolithic man in
a modern environment uh our our
technology food science and technology
has evolved so much faster than our
biology so that puts us at risk now for
all different diseases that our
ancestors never had so it's it's very
easy if you understand evolutionary
biology all the problems that we have
with respect to health is very
explainable yeah I agree and and I think
you can probably go even further back to
uh
ostropol um I mean we can see for as
long back through nitrogen isotop
testing after 3.4 million years that you
know we've consumed uh predominantly
animal proteins over yes we would have
consumed things like berries and fruit
uh potentially Hy and things but these
would have been seasonal so as a
percentage of the amount of carbohydrate
we would have consumed In Our Lifetime
or throughout the year it would have
been pretty small so as you say you know
ketosis is our natural metabolic State
it's the metabolic State we're born in
it's the metabolic state that we've
evolved in almost our entire existence
and the introduction of these toxic
compounds um as you say I believe is
fueling you know cancer and insulin
resistance and everything else because
they are all they are all connected um
you know what what I'd like to get into
quickly and it's it's funny actually
you've mentioned I made some notes uh
when you mentioned about uh so I've been
looking on uh Frontiers and some of your
papers that you've produced and cancer
as a mitochondrial metabolic disease
being one of them uh and on there you
know you've mentioned uh about the Frog
uh and the uh the mouse studies um where
we look at the uh medal medala blastoma
experiments sorry with the investigators
found that the nuclei of the mice um and
you've just mentioned this in regards to
the melanoma cells could produce normal
appearing you know blastocytes um that's
got to be proof positive surely that you
know if if it was genetic then this
would this would predominate through
these experiments um I find that
incredibly interesting can we get into
that a little bit can we go a bit and
you know when those experiments were
presented to some of the top uh genetic
cancer
geneticists uh in our country um and
we're asked how do you how do you uh how
do you inter how do you recognize these
nuclear mitochondrial transfer
experiments as as being absolutely
against the somatic mutation Theory uh
uh one one gentleman said uh well if if
if that's right uh then everything that
we're doing in the cancer field almost
everything is wrong and therefore those
experiments cannot be right
[Laughter]
so you tell me what's wrong with that
picture yeah but that seems to
predominate across all of um the medical
and health profession um it's they
almost try to build something to fit
their narrative you know we look at
we're told that red meat causes cancer
and F you know our fat clogs Our
arteries and so on and so forth yet we
know this to be untrue you know you and
I work in the spaces that we we read
these studies and we present these
studies on a daily basis but when you
present to someone within the medical
community they seem there seems to be a
block a mental block uh almost tunnel
vision if you like whereas they can only
see what's put right in front of them
which baffles me because as a scientist
I mean you're you should work towards
disproving your theory until all of
these other things are taken out of the
equation and then you're left with with
the truth so you should be trying to
disprove your theory rather than trying
to to defend it um and that's what I try
to do as a nutritionist so I've I've
studied all different types of nutrition
um you know from from veganism all the
way up to to Carnival uh and I I'm I'm
carnivore so I live a carnivore based
lifestyle um been ketogenic for over a
decade and it's been uh an incremental
change for me these slow incremental
gravitational changes towards uh
reducing carbohydrate initially um I
became low carb then I gravitated into
what I'd call a dirty keto lifestyle
then a clean keto lifestyle and you
learn to understand how damaging some of
these compounds are um some of them from
the foods themselves some of them
through the toxic chemicals that have
been added to these compounds uh in
their manufacturing process which we can
get into as well if you like um but it's
it's led me down this path of becoming
strict ketogenic and now for the last
four to five years um I live a carnival
based lifestyle um but you know you
mentioned there in regards to p lithic
man and how their uh lifespan was was a
lot smaller and this is an argument that
that I get thrown to me quite often is
well they didn't live that long back in
them days but if we look at the average
lifespan past the age of infancy then
these ages are 70 to 80 years of age
without central heating without
medication without antibiotics um for me
that's proof positive that an ancestral
appropriate lifestyle living a ketogenic
lifestyle can allow us not just to
survive um but Thrive but it's we're
still we still live in an age where
everything is genetic and it's well it's
just you know it's it's the um Power to
be the power structure that you're
dealing with uh think about it for a
minute you're dealing with your federal
government in in your case it's the NHS
I guess
uh and in our case it's the National
Institutes of Health um where where
where they all clearly state that that
this is a genetic disease um cancer is
according to them 100 different or more
diseases very complicated all
genetically different uh so you you you
have that and and the power of the
hospital systems the pharmaceutical
systems it's the power structure that is
resistant uh to this
like you like you just said when you
transitioned yourself from um to this
low carbohydrate keto genic lifestyle it
it didn't happen overnight you you
transitioned yourself over time to
realize what worked best for you um you
know uh it it will take a time for the
uh Industries the cancer Industries to
to readjust their thinking uh it can't
happen overnight you you can't cause
such a catastrophic change in an already
well oiled system uh working uh
according to uh the training that all of
these folks get in medical school and in
textbooks and in college and then all of
a sudden make this Revelation that oh
we've got to change everything um you
have to do it gradually just like you
did you have to the system the the the
systems must change and and we we don't
want to throw out all of the toxic
things that were using to manage cancer
we just have to reduce them to some
extent uh make them a little bit less
frequent a little bit less in dosage uh
while your body is in a state of
nutritional ketosis and then you'll find
that these things work even better uh
many of these toxic chemicals that are
that are poisonous actually become less
poisonous and more therapeutic when you
use them in lower dosage and less
frequently so so we don't have to throw
out everything we just have to know how
to use what we have better in light of
the effect that that uh transitioning
the person like what we what we
recommend in our writings is that a
person who who comes into the clinic
often times they have obesity they have
type two diabetes hypertension high
blood pressure you have to slowly move
that person from a state of unhealth to
health uh gradually by restricting
carbohydrates more exercise and then
when they get into this better Zone uh
then we can uh go after we use drugs to
go after the glutamine uh the glutamine
problem because the tumor cells can't
live without glucose and glutamine and
we have to do it strategically so again
it's it's transitioning like you did you
you you we transition the cancer patient
slowly depending on the individual their
age their gender uh their their cultural
background I mean all of these things
play an important role in moving a
person into a state of nutritional
ketosis and what we we did here at
Boston College we developed the glucose
Ketone index calculator uh which you can
then it's a quantitative measure to know
whether or not you're really in
nutritional ketosis so people say I I
eat this I eat that how do you know
you're well I don't know I'm just
guessing well with the with the glucose
meter with the keto Mojo meter you can
quantitatively know whether or not
you're in nutritional ketosis and when
the patients are in that zone of 2.0 or
below where the ratio of glucose to
ketones are almost Unity then the drugs
can Hammer these tumors out of EX
resistance with low levels of these
drugs uh different sequence unbelievable
uh people get more and more healthy the
longer they're being treated for their
cancer not just the opposite what you
see it's unbelievable yeah which is
incredible I I think I've I've heard you
mentioned previously that um the uh the
the
co- use of diet alongside um chapy
treatments in regards of being
ketogenic uh allows us to reduce the
amount of chemotherapy treatment but
therefore reducing the amount of damage
but it becomes and I may just be making
this up but I'm sure did you say
previously it's three to four times more
effective Liv can be from our from what
we're seeing on cancer patients where
they can do this they're they're really
getting um you know I was talking to my
colleagues in turkey and and they were
reducing the dosages because there's a
certain in order to maintain standard of
care there's a range of doses of
chemotherapy that you that you are
permitted to give patients there's the
highest dose and then there's the lowest
dose but there's a range and most most
clinics give the highest dose uh but but
as we were putting patients into
nutritional ketosis we they recognized
that half or onethird of the dose was
having just if if not more therapeutic
benefit without the collateral toxicity
because the tumors are all under already
under intense metabolic stress so a
little bit of chemical now just just
throws them over the edge of survival so
you don't need so and you don't harm the
rest of the body significantly when
you're doing this a perfect example of
how you modify uh and improve what we
already have but You' got to get the
patient first into that Nutri state of
nutritional ketosis and therefore a lot
of the burden in success falls on the
shoulders of the patient themselves so
this is a this is a team effort the
patient must know that their efforts to
bring their uh glucose down and ketones
up into this nut nutritional state is
going to be important for their eventual
uh management of this condition and
living a much longer life with a higher
quality of life and a greater overall
survival but a lot of it's falling on
the shoulders of the patient no longer
is the patient going to be a passive
bystander uh in this process yeah 100%
And I think you know what you've just
said plays into the you know the fact of
what we know in regards to being
ketogenic increases the the the
mitochondria it it not only increases
but it makes it more efficient um which
plays further into you know your
argument that the this is a
mitochondrial issue um you know from
your teachings previously you know what
I say to people is that cancer is caused
by damage to the mitochondria um causing
mitochondrial dysfunction and I I think
they they're probably your exact words
um correct me if I'm wrong but the the
cells lose their ability for oxidative
phosphorilation so therefore they can't
produce energy through electron
transport chain and then it pushes
glucose into a process of fermentation
um which fuels the cancer I mean is that
is that right so far well that that's uh
predominantly what we what we know from
the work of OT warberg the the great
German scientist from the from the 20th
century he clearly know knew what caused
cancer what what the problem with
warberg uh is he didn't know how to
capitalize and and use the knowledge
that he had to develop a therapy which
we did um however we we we there was a
lot of Mis understanding by warberg and
others at that time about um how much
energy you get from oxygen that you
breathe and how much energy you might
get from glycolysis in the cytoplasm um
so they were doing Quant warberg was
driven by the quanti he was in a um a
cell of of scientists that were rigidly
quantitative in everything they did
which was very important however when
you become too
quantitative uh you lose sometimes uh
other explanations like for example uh
Oto warberg said that one mole of oxygen
consumed was equivalent to seven moles
of ATP produced through oxidative
phosphorilation and he got that those
those numbers from Hans Krebs who worked
in Oto warberg lab and of course the
kreb cycle and these guys are all Nobel
Prize recipients so uh that's that's
true for normal normal tissue uh one
mole of oxygen prod produces about 7
moles of ATP that's not true for the
cancer cell the cancer cell takes in
oxygen but produces radical reactive
oxygen species which are carcinogenic
and mutogenic so the mutations of the
nucleus are coming from the damage to
the oxidative phosphorilation but but uh
the mitochondria in cancer cells can
produce some small amount of energy
through oxidative phosphorilation but
it's
insufficient by itself uh and what
happens is the cell gradually up
regulates fermentation me taking in more
fermentable fuels and approach so it
doesn't happen overnight like warberg
said if you damage oxas too acutely the
cell dies and you'll never get a tumor
from it you have to have cells that are
capable of transitioning over time from
oxos to what we call uh energy without
oxygen which is fermentation and the the
waste product lactic acid is an
indicator of energy through lactic acid
fermentation and that goes way up in
cancer cells how however what warberg
and the field still does not warberg
never knew and the new field the current
field still has difficulty understanding
we uh working with chinopos Christo
chinopos from semil Weiss University
have identified a second fermentation
pathway in in cancer cells uh which is a
glutamine fermentation this is really
interesting because the mitochondria
itself incapable of producing sufficient
energy through oxidative phosphorilation
can produce energy in the mitochondria
by fermenting glutamine in the
glutaminolysis pathway this is
incredible so all the field thought that
the that the tumor mitochondria were
respiring glutamine but we have shown
it's not being respired it's being
fermented and the waste product is suic
acid so the waste product of cytoplasmic
glycolysis aerobic glycolysis is lactic
acid and the waste product of
mitochondrial substrate level
phosphorilation is succinic acid acid
and these cancer cells are throwing
these two molecules out clearly telling
us I am fermenting I am fermenting
glucose and glutamine if you want to
kill me you must take away these
fermentable fuels I am telling you that
why are you too stupid to not know that
the cell is telling us exactly what
they're doing and we're not looking at
that we said that's the way you killed
them and then you transition them over
to fatty acids and ketones they can't
use fatty acids and Ketone bodies
because you need a good oxas system to
do that and they store Giant amounts of
lipids in the cytoplasm uh because they
can't burn them so they to protect the
cell from damage they store so all major
cancers are storing fatty acids in the
cytoplasm a marker to tell us that they
can't respire effectively these cells
have been telling us in no uncertain
terms for decades what they're doing to
stay alive and we have ignored the very
signals that the cells are telling us
but I see what they're telling me and I
know how to kill
them but nobody else wants to know about
it yeah that that seems to be very much
the case so look in in simple terms
Professor CED um are we saying that
cancer cells there there's two fuels So
currently we've got glucose as a fuel
and glutamin as another fuel um so let
let's look at glucose first of all
glucose comes from carbohydrate we can
get it from a number of sources of of
foods that we consume but would you
would you say that glucose is the number
one fuel source let's remove glutamine
currently but glucose being the number
one fuel source which we predominate
within our diet um so is well but don't
forget even when we even when you're in
a Paleolithic ketogenic diet you still
have glucose yes don't forget the
glucose produces through the 10-step
endin myor parns pathway pyruvate a
three carbon molecule that goes into the
mitochondria and is completely oxidized
and the waste products of that are CO2
and water the problem is is if
mitochondria aren't effective or you're
in a hypoxic environment that's
fermented to El lactic acid so you can't
the m so it's being diverted down a uh a
bypass pathway uh to get energy uh but
you have to have a tremendous amount of
fuel to make up the Lost energy from
oxidative phosphorilation that's why
large amounts of glucose are needed for
cancer growth not only for the energy
but also for producing metabolites so
you can synthesize new DNA RNA and
protein and lipids so you have to have
metabolites synthesis the machine this
is a a growing a growing machine uh this
cancer cell so you need two things you
need the energy and you need fuel for
for growth and the the two the carbon
Source from glucose uh gives us the the
uh uh uh we can build lipids and we can
build protein and we can build a part of
the nucleic acid but we need nitrogen
where's the nitrogen coming from it's
coming from glutamine it has two
nitrogens in it and that can produce DNA
and RNA help them with the proteins and
give us energy through mitochondrial
substrate level phosphorilation so
clearly these two fuels do everything
that the cell needs to survive and we
have gone through and interrogated these
cancer cells to see what else can they
use in replace of glucose and glutamine
we can't find it they can use a little
bit of this and a little bit of that the
problem is there's not much of this or
that in the micro environment in order
to drive the Beast you need sufficient
logistical supply of the fuels to drive
all this and the metabolites and glucose
and glutamine are abundant in the cancer
micro environment so it's going to have
plenty of energy if you don't take away
that energy it's extremely difficult to
kill and and and radiation and chemo all
that acidification around the tumors
coming from the fermentation of these
two fuels blocking these therapies to
try to kill the cancer C everybody's
going nuts oh cancer cells are so
resistant they're so tough yeah because
you're feeding the two fuels that they
need to grow take the fuels away you see
how weak they become yeah and a few
things there I mean there's there's so
much information with this that I think
we could probably speak about this for
hours but you mentioned pyit through
glycolysis which is something that we
don't create through beter oxidation or
Ketone production um when it comes to to
glucose yes it's it's in it's in our
diet it's it's found in many foods that
we consume um structurally if we look at
every cell the or the average melal cell
I think polysaccharides make up about 2%
of the cell 70% is is water and then
around 18% is protein 5% is lipid um so
to think that if we were to consume a
predominate carbohydrate as our main
contributor for uh for nutrition and
energy then this goes against what our
bodies are made of um so from from a
structural perspective of every cell
within the body you know we're told that
proteins and fats make up every cell yes
we consume glucose through a
evolutionary period but this would have
been in in small amounts uh a little bit
found in in organ
uh very little found in in muscle uh and
again any glucose would have been
seasonal uh and would have come in the
form of things like fractos the
interesting thing with fructose is that
that also ferments or has the ability to
ferment doesn't it um well fructose uh
is is is converted back into glucose in
the body too so um but it it goes
through a couple of other Pathways uh it
it's hazardous in in in large amounts uh
uh you know it's a little bit in fruits
you get fructose sugar from fruits but
uh when you when you pump high fructose
into all these sweet coca-colas and
pepsic colas and you know Diet Pepsi or
not even diet all these other kinds of
sugars a lot of it has high fructose
corn syrup in it uh this is not good you
know but but the issue here is is um we
we we have to focus in in my world I I
have to focus on killing cancer cells
without toxicity uh to the rest of the
body you you have to know how to wield
the power of nutrition uh to keep the
rest of the body healthy but you also
need to know how to how to strategically
uh Target and restrict the two fuels
driving the disregulated cell growth so
you you have to know that we have to be
very careful in targeting glutamine
because our gut requires glutamine we
want a healthy microbiome we want a
healthy gut we don't want to we don't
want to destroy that uh and and we have
to be very cautious about that because
glutamine is a is a fuel for our healthy
gut glutamine is also a fuel for our
immune system so if we're too aggressive
in targeting glutamine we can harm our
immune system which is needed to prevent
infections and to pick up the Dead uh
cancer cells the corpses so that's why
we developed the Press pulse therapeutic
strategy where we can choke off glucose
significantly with diet uh and exercise
exercise unbelievable so diet and
exercise can really choke off the
glucose but then we have to come in with
with a A drugs to strategically uh
challenge the the glutamine pathway and
that's what's Where We Are right now
dosage timing and scheduling to maximize
the how we're going to achieve this
resolution of cancer without harming the
body and you need to know how to play
one group of cells off of another in
your own body so when you do exercise
muscle stores glycogen because a muscle
does not share glucose so if we have
glucose in our butt and we're exercising
the muscle takes it and does not share
it and if whatever little you have is
going to go to your brain the tumor is
going to be low on the totem pole to get
that glucose when when our normal
systems are going to be using it so they
get marginalized so uh yeah man it's
easy to kill these damn tumor cells if
you know what to do and you do can do it
without toxicity problem is nobody knows
what I'm talking about but but I mean
the way that you describe it there seems
you make it sound incredibly simple um
stop consuming the compounds that are
feeding the cancer cells it just seems
super
straightforward we can't we can't T
glutamine is in meat right so but the
levels are so low it the amount that the
tumor needs uh eating meat a carnivore
diet yes there's glutamine in there but
glutamine is already super high in our
body anyway so eating some meat is not
going to make it any worse so so uh so
you need a drug to take care of the
glutamine issue go and eat the meat it's
not going to harm you it's fact it's
good for you but that but you gotta you
just got to make sure all me we met we
do these cancer patients we look at
incredible numbers of of of blood
metabolites we look at triglycerides we
look at HDL LDL we look at all the
vitamins we look for power we look for
everything and when we're bringing them
into the new state we have to maintain
what we call systemic metabolic
homeostasis when you're moving and
besides it's not easy uh you take a
person who's addicted to to to Sugar uh
and and it's like pulling them off you
know cocaine or or or nicotine so I
don't want to make this out to say oh
this guy knows what look how simple it
you try it and see what happens you'll
find out it's not that simple but it's
all willpower and it's also TR slowly
transitioning and understanding what
you're doing and why you're doing what
you're doing yeah for sure for sure you
know you mentioned there uh you know
glutamine is it's essential and we need
it it's found in the in the foods that
we eat but it predominates in the body
so H how can we combat the the glutamin
um you've mentioned previously about the
Don you know is that something that that
you implement um is that still you know
it's it's it's an unbelievable uh
tragedy that we don't have that as the
number one drug on the cancer
armamentarium you know you have doxer
rubison Cy platin you get all these
horrible toxic brutal drugs that are
readily available for a high price but
the most powerful drug is sitting there
doing nothing and it should be available
to everybody uh it's it's uh six deoxy
nor Lucine it looks very similar to
glutamine it it looks like glutamine
itself but but it binds it it gums up
the glut metabolism system but if you
use it in too high of a concentration
for too long you can get sick from it so
that's what happened when it was used
against little kids with leukemia they
were doing well but but it was causing a
little bit more toxicity than would have
been expected and it didn't work in some
cancers well they weren't targeting the
glucose at the same time man you got to
do the right way to do this if you do it
the right way this becomes a powerful
drug this Dawn okay and we tested others
uh glutamine Inhibitors but so far far
Don is the most powerful uh six deoxy or
Lucine but people can't get it now if I
were to have cancer I have access to
Dawn okay I can get it says not for
human use give me a break I'd use it if
it my life depended on it give me a
break I give it to the goddamn mice all
the time you know so they're fine so so
the the issue here is that I know what
to do if I had to do it but I feel bad
for so many people who don't have access
and then when they go to their
oncologist they never heard of this
stuff they never heard of anything that
I just told you is completely never
heard never heard of any of this stuff
no evidence to support what I'm saying
yeah well why don't you look at the
science and why don't you look at the
survival of the people who are doing
this Brad and Maggie Jones are doing the
cancer Revolution documentary and
they're collecting all these stage four
terminal cancer patients who have done
metabolic therapy and they're still
alive and they seem to be in a pretty
good state of health are they cured who
knows uh but they're alive longer than
they would have been expected to be and
that's the most important thing
management that management without
toxicity how long can you live we have
no
if your diet 98 years old and you had
cancer when you were 35 you obviously
were cured but who would know that so I
look for long-term we're looking for
qualitative management qual manage
quality and management and that's what
we our that's our level of success yeah
I agree and I think that word kward um
is thrown around an awful lot I think
it's I I tend to to feel that nothing
nothing is kward it's just in a state of
of remission or management because it's
environmental if you know being uh an X
type 2 diabetic if I were to go back
consuming lots of these toxic compounds
that I used to consumed with lots of
sugar and vegetable oil seed oils high
in linolic acid um which I believe leads
to more insulin resistance than glucose
does by the way but it's if I went back
to consuming these compounds then I
would develop type two diabetes again
and it's I believe you know from what
you were saying that it's the same with
with cancer cells if we restrict the
amount of glucose we consume then we can
starve cancer cells if we put the
glucose back in then we begin to feed
that cancer cell again so it's very much
environmental but I I I would argue that
nothing is is keward per se but it is
very much an environmental issue yeah
you're right and and if you con conceive
in our minds what it would have been
like if we were to go back uh one or
200,000 years ago and uh visit a tribe
of our um paleolith
ancestors who would have never had type
2 diabetes uh or any of these chronic
diseases uh because the their diet
nutrition uh are simply not not linking
to to that but if you gave those guys a
a big box of jelly fil Donuts uh they
would kill themselves for it and then
you would tell them you know this might
give you type two diabetes while they're
chowing down on the doughnut you think
they would care I don't think they would
care at
all that's modern
man but but yeah it is and it you've hit
the nail on the head because many of the
clients that I work with come to me
because they're sick and I made the
change to my diet because I was unwell
had I not felt unwell or developed the
conditions that I developed then maybe I
would have never have looked outside the
box uh and begin my journey down this
Rabbit Hole um and now I feel that I'm
so deep down the rabbit hole that I'm
I've come out the other end um and I'm a
big believer in in everything that
you've just said in regards to diet and
nutrition I I think this is you know
this this is the basis for everything I
think drugs are fantastic uh I'm not
against medication but I believe
medication should be used in a situation
um to help fight a problem but we need
to look at the root cause so it's all
well and good consuming medication if we
have inflammation for example like an an
anti-inflammatory but what's causing
that inflammation what's causing insulin
resistance what's causing the cancer um
you know you've mentioned there um so
we've we've gone on to the to the the
premise that this isn't genetic so it's
not that we're born with cancer per se
um and we we know that it's mitochondial
dysfunction so yeah well let me say
something uh people know that there are
uh inherited factors um that can pre
predispose you to have a greater risk of
getting cancer they are called secondary
risk factors not Prim primary risk
factors we've looked at all of the uh
genetic syndromes that lead to a
susceptibility to cancer Leaf Reni Lynch
syndromes you know retinoblastoma all of
these up and down and none of them are
100% penetrant and everyone that does
does develop cancer is a fermentor the
the cells are fermenting so um what
these inherited risk factors do is
interrupt oxidative phosphorilation
leading to secondary protracted
fermentation and disre ated cell growth
it's the mitochondria that regulates the
growth of the cell so when that organel
becomes corrupted the cell falls back on
its default state which is proliferation
driven by a fermentation metabolism so
we went through and looked at all causes
of cancer uh oncogenic viruses uh
carcinogens uh age inflammation
intermittent hypoxia uh we went through
them all and every one of these risk
factors whether it's a an inherited
factor or an acquired factor or an
exposed Factor every one of them caus es
chronic damage to oxidative
phosphorilation coupled to compensatory
fermentation only cells that can do that
are able to become cancer so we rarely
have ever find cancer in cardiac
myocytes or neurons of the brain um
mainly because if you interrupt their
oxidative phosphorilation they die and
can never become a tumor cell so we and
red blood cells of course they they they
have no nucleus or mitocondria uh so we
know it's clear the body is telling us
why why certain cells can get cancer why
certain cells can't get cancer
regardless of how how abusive you are so
so and we know because it's the two-step
process chronic disruption of oxidative
phosphorilation coupled to a protracted
elevation of substrate level
phosphorilation where the where the
enogen turn on they're they are
facilitators of bringing in the fuels
into the cell they open up the
floodgates so they can get high amounts
of glucose and glutamine and when you
and and and when you put new
mitochondria in there the anco jees turn
off and everything comes back to to
normal that's unbelievable so we are we
have this thing all pegged out we have
we know what to do to prevent cancer we
know what to do to manage cancer the
problem is everybody thinks it's a
genetic disease so everything I've just
said is
meaningless yeah which which is
incredibly frustrating I mean it's okay
so we carry we carry some of these genes
which may leave us
predispositioned um so this this effect
on the mitochondria um does that
influence things at an epigenetic level
yeah because yeah the mitochondria are
the most powerful epigenetic system in
the cell so so when when they are
suffering uh they immediately release
signals from the mitochondria uh that go
right into the nucleus and the nucleus
then turns on enogen which are
facilitators of the fermentation
metabolism so that's an epigenetic
powerful system the cell is sensing I'm
failing in my energy now what you have
to realize is that where most of the
energy interestingly enough in a Cell
comes from the membrane pumps uh these
are sodium potassium pumps they pump out
uh they we have an electrical charge
across all of our membranes uh in in our
body uh we we we pump out sodium and we
bring in potassium and that leads to an
electrical charge and that's all driven
by this pump pump pump action it's I
call it a dumbass pump but the pumps
require 40 to 60% of the energy in a
cell is going for pumps right so so when
the energy fails the the uh you know
sodium rushes in potassium rushes out
and you reach equilibrium that's called
Death you gotta you got to have the
energy to those pumps so if the if and
you can either get the energy from
oxidative phosphorilation or you can get
it from substrate level phosphorilation
at which is fermentation and and and the
bottom line is fermentation is so less
efficient than substrate than oxida
phosphorilation so you have to bring in
otherwise the cell's going to die yes
and it grows out of control why because
the organel controlling the
differentiated State the mitochondria is
corrupted it can no longer do that so so
everything is explainable uh the cells
fall back on a proliferation because all
of our cells in the atmos in our planet
two and a half billion years ago were
all fermenters and they grew without
regulation because there was no oxygen
they were fermenting and there the
cancer cell is using those AR lumic
Pathways to stay alive driven by a
fermentation metabolism so so clearly we
can put all the P all the together and
people say oh it has to be genetic
because oh my grandpa had it my uncle my
you're living in a common environment
Sim abusing yourself using the same
thing too so people we can explain
almost almost everything associated with
this phenomenon called cancer when we
understand it from evolutionary biology
systems physiology a and nutritional
biochemistry so we can put it all yeah
yeah which I mean I can attest
completely to what you've just said in
regards to um to what people say and
what they believe in regards it runs in
my family but as you say you tend to eat
what your parents eat what your brothers
and sisters eat um those compounds that
we consume can be incredibly detrimental
um you know you'll know from speaking
with with the likes of Dr chaff you know
things that you know certain plants
contain toxins but plants today are not
the plants that they used to be also
they've been heavily genetically
modified sprayed with toxic chemicals
like glyphosate um gly glyphosate will
block the shik pathway that will lead to
a fermentation process in the lower gut
also um and leads to increased
triglycerides and so on and so forth but
it's these toxic compounds that they
they're found in absolutely everything
they're not the foods no they're not
Foods they're man-made chemicals these
compounds that have been well that's the
whole thing about highly processed foods
carbohydrates the global uh trans uh
dissemination of foods uh across the
planet uh High highly processed carbs
and and chemicals and all the all these
kinds of things uh do impact uh
negatively on our physiology uh o o over
time and and a new Oxford dictionary
term the last few years was called locco
for a local for is somebody who eats uh
only vegetables and meat grown locally
all natural so none of this but you know
hard we're we're we're we're sitting in
traffic we're we're working all day long
we're under stress and now we're going
to go out in the backyard and try to you
know get a tomato off the thing and and
Slaughter some chicken in our backyard
you know we don't have time for this
kind of stuff we throw something in the
micro it's convenient it's easy and next
thing you know we're we're obese and
demented and with and then you say what
happened well the problem is uh uh we
have to recognize what what what these
things are and try to adjust to them as
best we can because we know that chronic
stress loneliness poor sleep bad diet no
exercise uh this is the modern Western
way this is the way most people uh are
exposed or throughout the world and as
soon as that Western Way comes into some
tribe all of a sudden you get an
explosion of all these chronic diseases
I visited the medical school at
thunderbay Canada which Services the
ints in the northern part of Canada and
they used to be the healthiest people on
the Planet about 150 years ago I mean
they were killing whales and seals and
this kind of thing uh very little
Greenery in their diet you know is very
seasonal and this kind of stuff mostly
meat and fat and this kind but now these
poor folks 50% of them have Ty type two
diabetes dementia cardiovascular disease
they're the sickest people on the planet
all because they started eating highly
processed carbs and no exercise and the
government takes care of them you know
it's like wow what happened you can just
clearly see within two generations
you go from super healthy to super sick
and it's all related to the diet
lifestyle so uh so we know it but who
wants to change diet lifestyle so
metabolic therapy can be used to both
prevent cancer as as as as well as
manage cancer that's very different from
standards of care when you think about
it uh okay we can we can do we we know
the Obesity diabetes epidemic is is is
linked to our diet and lifestyle puts us
at risk for for cancer so we can use
ketogenic metabolic therapy to put you
into a new metabolic State keeping your
mitochondria healthy it's very difficult
to get cancer if your mitochondria
remain healthy uh but nobody cares
because we have a DI we have an obesity
epidemic obviously these people never
heard of this stuff but but if they do
get cancer then we can use a very
similar kind of treatment to manage
manage these folks this is strikingly
different than what we do today when you
have cancer you have radiation toxic
poisons and Surgical mutilations and all
kinds of stuff uh as a as a form of
treatment you you don't usually do that
to some before they they have cancer you
don't see a line of people lining up in
front of Dana Farber MD Anderson can you
nuke and poison me so I don't get cancer
right no no if I have cancer you can nuk
and poison me but before I get this is
the crazy stuff this is nuts so so
clearly metabolic therapy can both
prevent cancer as well as treat cancer
but you do a few extra things in the
treatment process but it's all diet
lifestyle and knowing how your body uh
uh uses energy and once you know that
then you should be able to make choices
and that's it's up to you you know I'm
not saying any government should
restrict carbohydrates or drinks or
whatever but people if once they're
aware of it they can make conscious
choices and then and then determine
where they would like to go in their
life yeah I I agree but I I think you're
right it's also incredibly difficult um
sugar BL blocks the prefrontal cortex it
blocks our body's ability to to make
sensible decisions um and on your right
sugar is highly addictive it's one of
the most addictive drugs you know on the
planet um so it's I think you know what
there's there's a divide within like the
nutritional Community currently in
regards to some people believe that
fruits and veg are incredibly beneficial
and then on the flip side apologies on
the flip side there's the ketogenic
Carnival Community um but in between
you've got the the standard Western diet
if you like full of processed foods now
we all know the processed foods are
detrimental um so even at an incredibly
basic level we should be trying to make
a change and trying not to consume these
processed foods we know that they're not
good for us yet we still consume them
avidly because because you've hit the
nail on the head they're convenient but
the the most convenient food for me at
least that exists on the planet that is
also one of the most nutrient-dense
Foods is a piece of steak a piece of
beef I mean I Chuck I Chuck that into a
pan within two minutes it's the original
fast food yeah you know it's EG eggs
eggs and beef well eggs and beef are far
more expensive than uh than highly
processed twinkies and all these other
kinds of things that you get but but I
agree with you 100% I mean you throw in
a bunch of hamburger meat crack a couple
of eggs in there throw in some shirasa
sauce make it a little spicy uh I mean
but I'll tell you uh when my students uh
do this for a week or two no carbs your
body you start to your brain starts to
say hey where where where's the sugar
high where where where you're taking
away the drug people say I'm not
addicted to glucose oh yeah go water
only fast for three or four days see
what happens you start looking at your
pet in a different way you know yeah you
know
you it's really addictive it is totally
addictive it is 100% And it it goes
deeper because when we look at things
like serotonin and dopamine these are
things that we are hardwired to chase as
you mentioned earlier um and and sugar
blocks these Pathways and many of the
compounds that we consume like the
phytic acids the lectins and and the
antinutrients
they block the absorption the process of
our aromatic amino acids and prevent
when you eat fat when you eat fat uh it
triggers the hormone kyin which is an
appetite supressant actually so so uh
but the mice when we they don't have
that appetite suppression as much as
humans have so this is a kind of an
interesting thing we're always we always
have to be careful in our pre-clinical
studies because the Mouse has a basil
metabolic rate seven times that of a
human so everything happens like in a
Flash like most humans have a heart rate
of about 70 beats per minute or
something like this the mouse heart rate
is 650 beats per minute our head would
blow off our body if our heart went that
fast you know so so we have to be
careful when we do the translational
studies from from our preclinical
systems to humans and we find humans do
so much better than these poor mice on
these on these transitions but we need
to use the preclinical system to know
what will be Ive in in in in the human
system because we don't want to treat
anybody with something that hasn't been
vetted first in a preclinical system and
then we can we can modify and perfect it
for the human as we go forward so this
is the strategy that our group has taken
over the years we work everything out in
preclinical models of the worst kinds of
cancers in the natural host setting none
of these genetically engineered mice or
cancers everything that we work with is
all natural and then we get the these
systems where we're seeing tremendous
therapeutic benefit and then our
clinician Friends start to apply this in
the clinic and yes diet nutrition are
absolutely essential if you're going to
do ketogenic diets or any kind of a diet
pescatarian Mediterranean it has to be
nutritionally balanced and it has to
bring the patient into a glucose Ketone
index of at least 2.0 or below then
you're in a metabolic state for having
your cancer cells maximally targeted and
killed uh without toxicity so again but
the stress is you having to get into a
gki of 2.0 below which for some people
may not be that easy yeah which yeah I
mean a few points there and I'm
conscious at the time so I won't keep
you too much longer but I mean you
mentioned colicy Kine in there um fats
will also increase bdnf which helps us
uh with in inhibitory control um the sun
can help us with melanite stimulating
hormone through UVA Through The Eyes um
and and natural fats uh and and amino
acids can help uh block leptin so it um
it seems to be the perfect food to
prevent these and exercise make sure
that exercise is in there walk a couple
three miles a day you know make sure
you're you're moving moving moving
moving okay with what you just said uh
brings your whole body into a better
state of health which isn't bad I some
of these guys go out they I got to run a
mar I got to run a marathon I got to run
20 miles the next thing you know their
legs are blown out their hips are bad
walking just as long as do something
bike riding I it it it could be you
don't have to kill yourself these guys
run out they I got to do a lift 100
pound so much weights and I got to do
this next thing you know they're in the
hospital with something wrong and then
they can't exercise they get fat and the
next thing you know they're back in the
problem so everything has to be done
logically and and the older you get you
can't go out and do all this crazy stuff
you know I work out in a gym with all
these kids guys and girls that are 18 to
22 years old they look unbelievably
healthy and I'm there like whoa you know
and then I'm going to try to lift as
much weights and next thing you know I
hear something tear you
know when I was their age I could do a
hell of a lot more than I can do now at
my age so you just have to moderate
things do his moderation as best you can
and you have to recognize as you get
older you have to moderate more and more
you can't do what you did when you were
25 years old so uh but again you can
certainly keep your gki down and you can
certainly look on packages to see
whether this is going to be bad or good
but you know I'm not going to say I
never eat gently Donuts or a pizza or or
this kind of stuff of course I do but I
don't do it every day exactly I do it
rarely I do it occasionally but not
every day yeah very yeah I agree
completely it's you know you you can't
outtrain a bad diet um being an
ex-professional bodybuilder I've I've I
can attest to everything that you've
just said in regards to injury I now
compete in Endurance Sports so I've done
a complete 180 and now I do um do
athlons and training for triathlons so
and again I don't believe that that is
help healthy because it's an extremity
but what I the way that I structure my
training is that I split it um instead
of doing 20 miles for example it'll be
two BS of 10 done in the same day or if
I'm doing 16 it'll be two BS or whatever
so that time um and and the pressure
that that activation and expression of
ctis with the HP access is is far lower
and it it's it's much easier to to
sustain uh and it doesn't lead to to
that overexpression and block in that
negative feedback loop um but there are
ways that you can do it so I'm trying to
train for Endurance Sports in in in
short uh interval trainings in what I
call split training IE training twice a
day but a lot smaller and I find that
works a lot better for combating uh
injury but nutrition nutrition is number
one I think you know if you you can
train all you want and if your nutrition
is bad yes you can almost you can almost
keep you know keep the piper at Bay for
so long but eventually you need to pay
the piper
um you know that um that deposit needs
to be made back to the bank in the end
uh and that's why I believe that you
know we are what we eat and we need to
eat what makes us and for me you know
looking at the what makes the weight of
each cell and our bones and so on and so
forth It's Pro what you're basically
doing is you're trying to delay entropy
which is the second law of
Thermodynamics we all die from disorder
and that mitochondria maintained the
order in our body and as long as you can
keep that organel as healthy as possible
for as long as possible you have a
chance a chance to live longer with a
higher quality of life and that's
ultimately and also reduce the risk for
chronic diseases which would be obesity
type two diabetes dementia and cancer so
all of these things can be wrapped up
and that's why we say the glucose Ketone
IND index calculator is a powerful tool
to ward off uh chronic diseases uh but
you have a tool now before that we had
no tool and now we have free Liber
monitors in the that you can put onto
your arm we don't have it yet for
ketones but eventually it will be there
so you'll be on a real-time basis
knowing of whether or not you're a
nutritional ketosis at all times and you
can eat certain things and watch the the
parameters change it's unbelievable this
is going to be wonderful you know people
say oh my god let's see I really want
that jelly donut let me see what it does
to my gki
boom exactly and then all it makes it
says oh I guess I'll only have a little
bit more no
more yeah it's interesting at least at
least it gives you a quantitative
measure
right now it's all guesswork but once
people realize that the gki can allow
them to stay in these zones and know
that their bodies are getting very
healthy at least they have some
quantitative measure from a drop of
blood on the tip of the finger is what
it is and you can buy the meter from
Amazon so all of this is is is is there
uh it's just that people don't just
don't have access to it yet or know
about it once they know about it and our
work here is all supported by
philanthropy and private foundations we
had a a really large nice Grant from
from the British UK Childhood Cancer we
developed an incredible uh therapy for
high-grade Goma in children a non-toxic
because the number one killer of kids
cancer is high-grade gomas it's a
terrible horrible disease but we can we
we've actually found that if we target
glucose and glutamine simultaneously
while transitioning the body into
nutritional ketosis uh we we're able to
keep these high-grade gomas at Bay uh
keep them down make them indolent so
these kids could live so much longer
it's going to be a blockbuster the
problem is they don't know about it and
when you tell them about it it can't be
true it's too good to believe it's like
well why don't you look at the data and
then you make up come to your own own
decisions about this but the future is
coming and the future is metabolic
therapy brace yourself if you're not
part of it get out of the way because
it's coming I agree completely and do
you know just to point on that I think
you you present this information to
someone you tell someone to look at this
information the issue is they will go
and show the information to their doctor
which the doctor usually says that this
is a lot of rubbish and people believe
their doctor you know and and and in
there lies the problem it's breaking
this this cycle I think and um I don't
think it's going to happen from the top
down I think it's got to come from from
the bottom up from from from us well
that's why your shows uh these uh
YouTube things that I do and we're
starting our own YouTube vi video our
own channel called talking cancer with
Professor seed and then people hit me
with all kinds of questions students and
all these and then we can address them
uh logically and we bring them to the
literature that supports what we're
finding because we're not just making
this stuff up I mean we have scientific
evidence tested experimental controlled
experiments looking at what we're doing
and let the people make their own
decision you're absolutely right and
that and that's why we publish an Open
Access Journal so this is not behind a
pay wall people can get my papers they
can read them and if they don't
understand them they can have someone
explain some of this stuff to them and
at least feel P empowered knowledge is
power and uh they'll take charge believe
me people want to live uh and they'll do
it yeah I agree and look it's you know I
I we have we have a private community
and I know there are one or two uh
people suffering with with cancer issues
uh it would be fantastic and and I'd be
honored if we could get you in there for
a live Q&A at one point or we can direct
them to your Channel or both um but you
know I think that would be absolutely
fantastic and I've got nothing but
admiration for for what you were doing
um
really quickly before before you go Dr
CED um the the supplementation of things
like MCT oils uh C8 caprylic acid and
exogenous ketones is there a place for
these within treatment as um I I think
so I I think so because I know
Bulletproof Coffee I've made it myself
it's really quite good I use a a couple
of tablespoons of MCT oil I use real
butter and I use natural cream uh and
maybe a little Stevia in there it's not
it's an artificial sweetener but it's
supposed to be not so toxic you shake it
up it's like a latte for cry you drink
the damn thing you don't feel hungry for
the rest of the day it's unbelievable uh
but but though you're absolutely right I
mean I I think I think those things have
a place um Ketone supplements are
ketones are are kind of bitter uh if you
take the real natural stuff like my
friend D de austino does you ought to
have him on on your show he's the Mr
nutrition expert himself if you could do
an intro I would massively appreciate it
yeah yeah Dominic you you'll he broke
the world record in lifting some sort of
squats and lifts at some point the guy
works out with Dwayne Johnson you know
the the movie he's that he's that kind
he looks like that guy so all these
muscles um but but Dom does all all this
stuff too and um yeah so so I I think
that um we just need to stay on this
right path and and we'll be fine yeah
fantastic I I produce C8 at the world's
highest po oh
yeah well C8 um caprylic acid it
produces ketones real quick um so uh
it's good you can spike your your MCT
oil with a little because generally
caprylic acid is not in MCT oil but you
can spike a little bit of that I think
it comes from goats milk you can get a
lot of it from goats milk actually uh
but uh yeah very good but not too much
because you just want it all to go to
Ketone every the liver is is our Ketone
Factory so a liver makes D beta hydroxy
berate uh which is the key Ketone you
don't want L beta hydroxy butter you
want D beta hydroxy that's the one that
keeps your mitochondria healthy and that
comes from caprylic acid and MCT oils so
let your let your body make it naturally
uh by by by doing these things I don't
know the exact dosage of cilc but we do
put it into our ketogenic met metabolic
formulations so it's and we wrote a
paper on this with a a colleague from
Turkey uh on on caprylic acid uh as a
source of ketones naturally so um so
yeah we we've looked into all these
things and we're still developing this
is the Future these kinds of new diets
that are going to give you the maximum
bang for your buck uh we're always
considering cancer but but of course
dementia is another big thing that will
be prevented by by this too you know so
it's going to have a lot of utility you
got to keep your neurons and your
mitochondria healthy and all this stuff
works together
yeah spot on I completely agree I'll
have to send you some it's my my Cate by
certification is the world's highest
Purity at
99.9% so I think even bulletproof is is
only like .1% lower yeah but I'll gladly
send you some so it um okay yeah i' i'
yeah I'd love that it's um the mice will
appreciate it fantastic I love the stuff
it's I'm ketogenic um but I still use it
what's your gki what's your gki you know
I haven't I've been so long on my
journey I haven't tested for for a long
time Rich Richard please you must count
you must first next time you go up you
hold up you see here's my gki today
while I'm talking to you perfect I will
reach out to our good buddy who owns um
uh Kito Mojo um yeah so it's Dorian yeah
so I I know Dorian we've met at at a few
events um and I am looking to get his
his meters on board well you you'll be
able to look at it in real time
because uh you you would show your gki
chug your your ca caprylic acid and then
see how your ketones are rising in real
time I mean what could be more
informative and Powerful I agree I agree
yeah it's and it's interesting you
mentioned that and um the the lifestyle
Libra which I've used um and it's
interesting to show how much that when
you exercise how it how the body creates
glucose so we know that glucose is
essential
well it's coming some of it comes from
the lactic acid that the muscles are
throwing out that's the coryy so so yeah
so you can say oh why I'm doing all this
exercise my Sugar's going up that's
because you're burning at the muscles
are bur throwing the lactic acid into
the bloodstream and don't forget arthr
sites always need some low level of
glucose they do uh they have a very low
um electrical chem the minus 6 molts the
the only function of arthrite is to move
gases CO2 and oxygen so they don't need
need much of a pump whereas the cardiac
myosite is a minus 86 because that's a
cell that's constantly Contracting so
that cell needs a hell of a lot more
energy than the arthrite does so and
there's another thing the Delta G Prime
ATP hydrolysis which is an incredibly
important bioenergetic constant that we
don't want to go into now but it it
would take a whole lecture to talk about
that but but but all of this is all
linked together uh for Optimal
Performance and health yeah call for
another day but yes I think the ryes
need glucose because they don't have
mitochondria it and only mitochondria
can use ketones for energy and it's
similar with the glutamergic
neurotransmitters in the brain but the
as you say that the body creates this
naturally via glucano Genesis um so our
requirement for an exogenous source is
zero but the body makes all the glucose
that we need and I think that's where
the confusion comes in and the brain and
the muscle the get the first dibs on
this so the tumor as I said is way down
on the on the on the line to get the
sugar that's absolutely needed for that
thing to survive yeah so that's why you
can easily transition your body and put
pressure on these tumor cells yeah I
agree completely fantastic do Dr C just
to sum something up that I've been
throwing back and forth in in my head um
I mean so if if we look at like gene
expression
epigenetics um are we safe to say that
the the loss of gene expression and we
know that the loss of gene expression
occurs around 10 times more frequently
through um transcriptional silencing via
hyper methylation of the CBG Islands
over mutations but are we are we saying
that mitochondrial disregulation enables
the tumor cells to produce the building
blocks if you like to to moderate these
epigenetic marks and promote that
initiation of say epigenetics when I um
it it's methylation acetalation sulation
all these kinds of things um it's a it's
a term that people throw out uh that is
massively complicated and and uh very
very few really understand uh when we
talk about uh epigenetics being
responsible for something um you know we
can talk about that but I prefer to kill
all the tumor cells after we kill all
the tumor cells make the body healthy we
can just sit down um and talk about
epigenetics but but the bottom line is
here without the glucose and glutamine
and the inability to burn ketones and
fatty acids uh epigenic no I don't care
what whatever you're talking about let's
kill those guys
uh and then and then we can discuss
these more esoteric kinds of Concepts uh
but but I don't prefer to not to waste
my time talking about epigenetics my job
is to kill these things without those
fuels they can't survive epigenetic or
no epigenetic so microbiome the same
thing let's not you know we when you do
metabolic therapy you got to keep your
microbiome healthy you go to get cancer
treatment you blow the hell out of your
microbiome so what are you doing you
know uh the whole thing here has to be
recognized in terms of systems
physiology ology and that's what we work
on so yeah I mean I I I know the
mitochondria most powerful epigenetics
oh wow how does it do that yeah it it it
turns on anene does I I know what it's
doing and we just know how to stop it so
let's stop it kill the cells and and not
worry about those other extraneous
things love it that is absolutely
perfect and probably the perfect place
to to end today's podcast Pro Professor
CED an absolute pleasure to have you on
I'd love to get you on as a guest to Del
deeper maybe next time but where can
people find you how can they support you
well uh we have uh two supporting
systems one is my University Boston
College at on the biology web page you
see my picture and there's a donation
for people who would like to donate to
our research and Travis K
christopherson's Foundation of of um
metabolic cancer therapies uh I when I
send kits of information out to the
cancer patients I I include those but um
the unfortunately there are people
um that have set up channels saying
they're my channels like the TR charity
channel uh is I have nothing to do with
that uh it says it's mine it's not mine
uh there's books I've written only one
book cancer is a metabolic disease John
Wy press you'll see seed's books all
over the I didn't write any of those
books uh those books are put out by
others uh that want to make a profit on
my name they even say I wrote the book
books and I didn't write the Books it's
unbelievable I wrote only one book
cancer is a metabolic disease John Wy
press uh yes it's $100 or more uh but
these other books are like $15 saying I
wrote them I didn't write them so this
is one of the problems but I get my
money from those foundations in
philanthropy to help our to help our
research go forward and people have been
very generous and we appreciate their
help and I also uh when they do support
us if you look at my papers and you look
at the acknowledgement section you say
who are all these people you know
benevolent funds and this guy and that
guy who are these people those are the
guys that are supporting our research so
if people want to support our research
and get their name in the
acknowledgement section on a nice big
paper that we publish uh we'll put their
name there and let them know that this
is this guy has helped this paper the
information in this paper is helped by
that person in the acknowledgements
fantastic and I will be doing that
myself I'll put all of those links in
the show notes below but Professor C
it's been an absolute pleasure again I
can't thank you enough um thank you so
much and with a bit of luck we'll get
you on again yeah thank you Richard for
for disseminating this information you
you also play an extremely important
role as well I appreciate that thank you
okay bye now